Several reason applications
of Reinforcement Learning,
learning to play Atari Games,
controlled traffic signals or
even automatically
configuring web systems
have been built on
a single algorithm.
This algorithm is
called Q-learning.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to describe
the Q-learning algorithm,
and explain the
relationship between
Q-learning and the Bellman
optimality equations.
Q-learning was developed
in 1989 and is one of
the first major online
Reinforcement Learning algorithms.
Let's take a look
at the pseudocode.
We've seen this format before.
The agent chooses
an action in a state,
takes the action, and observes
the next state and reward.
Then the agent does an update
and the cycle repeats.
With so many familiar elements,
what's new about Q-learning?
Well, the new element in
Q-learning is the action
value update.
Here, the target is the reward
RT plus one plus Gamma times
the maximum action value
in the following state.
This differs from Sarsa,
which uses the value of
the next state action pair
in its target.
Why does Q-learning use
Emacs instead of
the next state action pair?
This connection goes way back to
the dynamic programming material.
If you look at the update
equation for Sarsa,
it's suspiciously similar to
the Bellman equation
for action values.
In fact, Sarsa is
a sample-based algorithm to solve
the Bellman equation
for action values.
Q-learning also solves
the Bellman equation
using samples from
the environment.
But instead of using
the standard Bellman equation,
Q-learning uses the Bellman's
Optimality Equation
for action values.
The optimality equations enable
Q-learning to
directly learn Q-star
instead of switching between
policy improvement and
policy evaluation steps.
Even though Sarsa
and Q-learning are
both based on Bellman equations,
they're based on very
different Bellman equations.
Sarsa is sample-based version of
policy iteration which uses
Bellman equations
for action values,
that each depend
on a fixed policy.
Q-learning is a sample-based
version of value iteration
which iteratively applies
the Bellman optimality equation.
Applying the Bellman's
Optimality Equation
strictly improves
the value function,
unless it is already optimal.
So value iteration continually
improves as value
function estimate,
which eventually converges
to the optimal solution.
For the same reason,
Q-learning also converges to
the optimal value
function as long as
the aging continues
to explore and
samples all areas of
the state action space.
Let's review what
we learned today.
In this video, we introduce
the Q-learning algorithm and
described its connection to
the Bellman's
Optimality equations.